Hey, everyone.
Welcome back to Boost Your Income with
Bootstrap to WordPress.
This lecture is called What is Bootstrap,
and Why Mastering It Will
Save You Hundreds of Hours.
[MUSIC]
So I wanna tell you a little
bit about Bootstrap.
Bootstrap is a framework.
It is the most popular HTML and
CSS framework, actually, for
developing responsive and
mobile first projects on the web.
And responsive and
mobile first basically means it focuses on
websites that are coded to be fully
accessible on mobile devices and tablets.
So instead of developing your website
first for the desktop, and then later on,
adding in some media queries and making
it work on your iPhone or something,
that's not what Bootstrap tries to do.
What they're doing is focusing
primarily on mobile, and
then scaling it up to desktop.
So it should work all across the board.
So it's really great for that,
and it helps you save time,
which is what this lecture is about.
Before I started using Bootstrap, and
I've tried a bunch of other
frameworks too, and they're great.
But before I started using Bootstrap,
I used to just hand-code by HTML and
CSS templates.
And what I mean by templates is I worked
at a studio as a front-end web developer.
What front-end web developers do
are code templates in HTML, and
CSS, and JavaScript or J-Query.
And then they hand those templates
off to a back-end developer.
The back-end developer then
integrates those HTML and
CSS static templates into the database,
makes them dynamic, uses PHP or
whatever programming language, and
sets the rest of the website up.
So basically,
takes it from the front-end guy,
the back-end guy does the really intense,
advanced development.
And then you kinda have
a well-rounded website.
Bootstrap comes into play when you
are trying to build templates.
So like I said, when I used to code
templates by hand, I used to take
a long time because I am recoding
everything over and over and over again.
And a lot of the same elements,
I'm just basically reinventing every
single time, and it's time consuming.
When I discovered Bootstrap, I realized,
hey, I can actually use this
to save me a massive amount of time
because they already have things
that you just don't need to recode every
single time, like grids, responsive grids.
Sure, I can code a responsive
grid like nobody's business.
But I don't want to every single time I do
a project, because it's gonna waste time.
And I like to deliver fast and
efficiently.
Instead of me saying, hey, no,
I wanna practice my responsive grids,
I could just use Bootstrap to
just basically do it for me.
Things like form elements,
styling typography,
components like icons,
these are font icons.
Things like badges, and alerts,
panels, like this, just simple things,
little panels like this,
or wells where you kind of highlight
some texts in a little well.
Navigation bars, and tabs, buttons,
things like styling images,
and things like tables.
Tables are a pain in the butt to look
good, and they've already just done it for
you by just adding a class called table.
So it's amazing because there's so
much here that you just
don't need to recreate over and over and
over and over again every single project.
So here's a good example, lets say you're
self-employed or you work at a company.
If you understand Bootstrap and how to
develop website layouts with Bootstrap,
it's gonna save you and
your company precious development time.
And what I mean precious development time,
I mean hundreds of hours,
or thousands of dollars.
So if you're self-employed,
look at it this way.
Two self-employed web developers are each
hired to build a small website for
let's say, $1,000.
Developer number one
hand-codes his website, and
it takes him about 40 hours to complete,
effectively making him $25 an hour.
Developer number two uses Bootstrap to
build his website, and it takes him 20
hours, because he's saving so much time,
effectively making him $50 an hour.
So which developer do you wanna be?
So in that 40 hours, developer number
two could do projects and make $2,000.
Rather than developer number one
who's hand-coding everything, and
he only did the one
project in the 40 hours.
Imagine how much time you can save and
how much more money you can make by
using a framework like Bootstrap.
That's why I sing its praises so much
because it's awesome, and it saves me so
much time, and
it literally makes me thousands of
dollars more because I use Bootstrap.
When Bootstrap says, it's the most
popular HTML, CSS, and JS framework for
developing responsive, mobile first
products on the web, they mean it.
And I know that because I work
with it every single day,
and I've developed hundreds
of websites using Bootstrap.
So that's why we're using
Bootstrap in this project.
[MUSIC]